---
layout: post
title:  Effect of Optical Flow and User VR Familiarity on Curvature Gain Thresholds for Redirected Walking
# date:   2018-07-24 15:01:35 +0300
image:  OptiRDW.jpeg
tags:   Master's_project
---

* Virtual reality (VR) locomotion should allow users to move freely in the virtual space while staying within the tracking area in the real space. 

* The redirected walking (RDW) technique enables users to walk naturally in an unlimited virtual space within a limited-tracking area by rotating the virtual scene view. 

* However, conflicting visual and vestibular signals during RDW can lead to user discomfort and decreased immersion. To avoid user discomfort, an RDW gain should be within the detection threshold (DT) range. 

* However, a large angle of walking redirection is required when physically avoiding obstacles or escaping from a narrow space, so DT expansion is necessary. 

* In this study, to change the curvature DT range and enhance RDW performance, we proposed an optical flow (OF)-generating vection in a virtual environment. 

* Further, we investigate methods to reduce user discomfort and increase RDW efficiency considering familiar and unfamiliar VR users. 

* The findings showed that the introduction of OF led to a reduction in the DT range for all users, irrespective of the OF's direction. 

* However, conditions with OF resulted in an extended DT range for users familiar with VR while concurrently diminishing the DT range for those who were VR unfamiliar. 

* To delve further, our analysis indicated that when both the OF and redirecting directions were identical, the RDW performance was robust to VR familiarity; whereas, in opposing directions, the DT range increased for VR-familiar users. 

* Our study findings suggested using OF for the RDW technique and extending its applicability in virtual environments.
<a href="https://doi.org/10.1007/s10055-023-00935-4"><strong>(Paper Link)</strong></a>