---
layout: post
title:  Automated Drone Design for Kiwi Pollination
# date:   2018-07-24 15:01:35 +0300
image:  KiwiDron.jpeg
tags:   Undergraduate_project
---

* The project "Designing a Drone for Automated Kiwi Pollination" addresses a significant challenge in the agricultural sector: the automation of kiwi fruit pollination. 

* Traditionally reliant on manual labor due to specific environmental and biological constraints, kiwi pollination presents a unique set of challenges. 

* This project aims to develop a drone-based solution to automate this process, thereby enhancing efficiency and reducing the reliance on manual labor in kiwi farming.

* Kiwi flowers have a notably short blooming period and often bloom under conditions of heavy foliage, which has historically impeded automation efforts in this area. The dense growth of vines and roots in kiwi farms renders ground-based automation, such as rovers, impractical.

* A unique aspect of the project is the integration of a wind pressure mechanism in the drone. This mechanism directs the drone’s wind pressure into a container holding kiwi pollen and charcoal powder. 

* The generated airflow creates a vortex within the container, effectively mixing the kiwi pollen with charcoal powder. The use of charcoal powder in kiwi pollination is a standard practice aimed at preventing the clumping of pollen grains, which can occur due to moisture. The even mixture of pollen and charcoal ensures an efficient and effective pollination process.

* Equipped with image recognition technology, the drone is designed to navigate the challenging terrain of kiwi farms and identify flowering kiwi plants accurately. Once a flower is identified, the drone utilizes the strong wind pressure generated by its motors to deliver the pollen-charcoal mix precisely to the targeted flowers.